.nh
.TH "CIRCLECI-MIGRATE" "1" "Jun 2026" "circleci-migrate" "CircleCI Org Migration CLI"

.SH NAME
circleci-migrate-export - Export source-org data to a local manifest file.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircleci-migrate export --source-org  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
export reads configuration from the source CircleCI organization and
writes a non-secret JSON manifest plus a human-readable audit report.

.PP
The manifest captures contexts (and their variable names, restrictions, and
security groups), projects (settings, variable names, and metadata), and
org-level settings. It is read-only: it never writes to CircleCI, and it never
contains secret values — those are masked by the API and must be captured with
the in-pipeline secrets step.

.PP
The org slug is "gh/" for GitHub OAuth organizations or
"circleci/" for GitHub App / GitLab organizations.

.PP
Self-hosted runner resource classes live under a namespace on runner.circleci.com.
Pass --runner-namespace to capture them. The namespace must be supplied explicitly
because there is no clean org→namespace lookup in the CircleCI API.

.PP
USAGE DATA SNAPSHOT (opt-in):

.PP
Pass --include-usage to also request a historical usage report from the CircleCI
Usage API. The report is downloaded as gzip-compressed CSV files to a "usage/"
sub-directory next to the manifest. The window defaults to the last 30 days; use
--usage-start / --usage-end (RFC 3339) to override. The maximum window is 31 days
(enforced by the API).

.PP
IMPORTANT: usage data is a local baseline/record only. It does NOT transfer to
the destination organisation during sync or migrate. If the usage export fails or
times out, the main export succeeds and a warning is printed.

.PP
Examples:
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme --source-token $SRC_TOKEN
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme -o acme.json --report acme-audit.md
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme --project gh/acme/web --project gh/acme/api
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme --runner-namespace acme
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme --include-usage
  circleci-migrate export --source-org gh/acme --include-usage --usage-start 2026-01-01T00:00:00Z --usage-end 2026-01-31T23:59:59Z


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for export

.PP
\fB--include-usage\fP=false
\[la]Opt\-in\[ra] Request a historical usage report from the CircleCI Usage API and download the CSV files to a 'usage/' sub-directory next to the manifest. This data is a local baseline/record only — it does NOT transfer to the destination org.

.PP
\fB--json\fP[=false]
	Print a machine-readable JSON summary to stdout instead of the human-readable summary (manifest and report files are still written)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="manifest.json"
	Path to write the JSON manifest (always written; use -o to change the path)

.PP
\fB--project\fP=[]
	Explicit project slug to export (repeat to export multiple: --project gh/acme/web --project gh/acme/api)

.PP
\fB--report\fP="migration-report.md"
	Path to write the human-readable audit report

.PP
\fB--runner-namespace\fP=""
	Source runner namespace to capture self-hosted runner resource classes from (e.g. 'acme'). The namespace must be supplied explicitly — there is no clean org→namespace lookup.

.PP
\fB--skip-contexts\fP[=false]
	Skip exporting contexts

.PP
\fB--skip-extras\fP[=false]
	Skip checkout keys, webhooks, and schedules

.PP
\fB--skip-projects\fP[=false]
	Skip exporting projects

.PP
\fB--source-org\fP=""
	Source organization slug: gh/ or circleci/ (required)

.PP
\fB--usage-end\fP=""
	End of the usage report window in RFC 3339 format (default: now). Only used when --include-usage is set.

.PP
\fB--usage-start\fP=""
	Start of the usage report window in RFC 3339 format (default: 30 days ago). The window may not exceed 31 days. Only used when --include-usage is set.

.PP
\fB--usage-timeout\fP=10m0s
	Maximum time to wait for the usage export job to complete before giving up. Only used when --include-usage is set.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug logging

.PP
\fB--dest-token\fP=""
	API token for the destination org (env: CIRCLECI_DEST_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--host\fP="https://circleci.com"
	CircleCI host URL (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_HOST, CIRCLECI_HOST, or CIRCLE_URL)

.PP
\fB--source-token\fP=""
	API token for the source org (env: CIRCLECI_SOURCE_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Personal API token — fallback for both orgs (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_TOKEN or CIRCLE_TOKEN)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcircleci-migrate(1)\fP
