.nh
.TH "CIRCLECI-MIGRATE" "1" "Jun 2026" "circleci-migrate" "CircleCI Org Migration CLI"

.SH NAME
circleci-migrate-sync - Apply a manifest to the destination org (contexts, projects, and org settings).


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircleci-migrate sync --manifest  [--secrets ] [--apply] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
sync recreates exported data in the destination CircleCI organization.

.PP
It reads the manifest (structure + variable names), an optional secret bundle
(the plaintext values captured by the in-pipeline 'secrets' step), and an
optional mapping file (source->destination org/project mapping; defaults to the
same names). It is idempotent: existing resources are reused by name where
possible.

.PP
The destination org defaults to the SOURCE org from the manifest. To target a
DIFFERENT org you MUST pass --mapping with org.to set — otherwise sync runs
against your own source org (a prominent warning is printed in that case).

.PP
--mapping file schema (JSON):
  {
    "org": { "from": "gh/acme", "to": "gh/acme-new" },
    "projects": { "gh/acme/web": "gh/acme-new/web" },
    "github_org": { "from": "acme", "to": "acme-new" }
  }
Only "org.to" is required to retarget the destination org. "projects" remaps
individual project slugs (needed for GitHub App destinations whose slug is
"circleci//"); "github_org" rewrites repo owners when repos
moved to a new GitHub org.

.PP
Secrets: env-var VALUES come from the captured secret bundle (--secrets). With
--apply but NO bundle, contexts/projects are created with EMPTY env-var values
that you must fill in manually — run 'circleci-migrate secrets capture' first to
capture the plaintext values, then pass --secrets \&.

.PP
Resources synced (in order):
  • Org settings — feature flags, OIDC claims, URL-orb allow list, config
    policies, OTel exporter, contacts, storage retention, budgets, release
    tracker, and block-unregistered-users.
  • Contexts — with environment variable values from the secret bundle.
  • Projects — OAuth projects are recreated in a paused state; App projects
    are created with a pipeline definition and trigger.
  • Self-hosted runner resource classes — only when --dest-runner-namespace
    is provided or the manifest contains runner classes.

.PP
By default sync performs a DRY RUN and writes nothing — review the plan, then
re-run with --apply. Group and project-type context restrictions are flagged
for manual recreation (group writes are not GA; project restriction values are
source-org IDs).

.PP
When OAuth projects are missing in the destination, --apply creates them in a
paused state (no webhook, no builds). After creation you are prompted to enable
builds (follow the project, which installs the webhook and may trigger an
initial build). --yes / -y only matters together with --apply: it auto-confirms
enabling builds without the interactive prompt (it has no effect in a dry run).
Without a TTY, builds are not enabled unless --yes is passed.

.PP
When the manifest contains self-hosted runner resource classes, pass
--dest-runner-namespace to recreate them in the destination namespace. If the
flag is omitted, runner classes are flagged for manual recreation — the syncer
never guesses the destination namespace.

.PP
Examples:
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --secrets secrets.json
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --secrets secrets.json --apply
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --mapping mapping.json --apply
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --mapping mapping.json --secrets secrets.json --apply --yes
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --mapping mapping.json --dest-token $DST_TOKEN --apply
  circleci-migrate sync --manifest manifest.json --dest-runner-namespace acme-new --apply


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	Write changes to the destination (default: dry run)

.PP
\fB--create-project-tokens\fP[=false]
	When set AND --apply, recreate each captured project API token on the destination project. CAUTION: each recreated token mints a NEW one-time secret — every consumer of the old token must be repointed to the new value. New plaintext values are printed to stderr once and cannot be retrieved again. Default false: emit manual steps only.

.PP
\fB--dest-github-org\fP=""
	Destination GitHub organization owner (e.g. 'acme-new'). Use when all repos have moved to a new GitHub org. Takes precedence over the source owner when resolving repo external IDs; overridden by an explicit github_org entry in the mapping file. Requires --github-token.

.PP
\fB--dest-runner-namespace\fP=""
	Destination runner namespace for recreating self-hosted runner resource classes (e.g. 'acme-new'). Must be supplied explicitly — the syncer never guesses the destination namespace. When omitted and the manifest contains runner classes, each is flagged for manual recreation.

.PP
\fB--github-token\fP=""
	GitHub personal access token used to resolve repository IDs when creating pipeline definitions in a GitHub App destination org. Falls back to $GITHUB_TOKEN. Required when repos have been moved to a new GitHub org (--dest-github-org or mapping github_org). When omitted, the captured external_id is reused (correct for same-org migrations).

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for sync

.PP
\fB--json\fP[=false]
	Print a machine-readable JSON summary to stdout instead of the human-readable per-section reports

.PP
\fB--manifest\fP=""
	Path to the export manifest (required)

.PP
\fB--mapping\fP=""
	Path to a source->destination mapping file (JSON). REQUIRED to change the destination org name; without it sync targets the SOURCE org. Schema: { "org": {"from":"gh/acme","to":"gh/acme-new"}, "projects": {"gh/acme/web":"gh/acme-new/web"}, "github_org": {"from":"acme","to":"acme-new"} }. Only org.to is required to retarget; projects/github_org are optional.

.PP
\fB--missing-secrets\fP="skip"
	How to handle variables with no captured value: 'skip' omits the variable entirely; 'placeholder' creates the variable with a placeholder value. Use 'placeholder' for restricted contexts whose values cannot be captured, so the variable name exists and can be filled in manually later.

.PP
\fB--only\fP=""
	Comma-separated list of sections to sync, skipping all others. Accepted values: org-settings, contexts, projects, runner, ciam, extras. Example: --only org-settings,ciam,extras (to sync only CLI-only sections after terraform apply). Mutually exclusive with --skip-terraform-managed.

.PP
\fB--secrets\fP="secrets.json"
	Path to the captured secret bundle holding plaintext env-var values (optional). Without it, --apply creates resources with EMPTY env-var values; run 'secrets capture' first to populate them.

.PP
\fB--skip-ciam\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing CIAM roles and groups (standalone circleci-type orgs only)

.PP
\fB--skip-contexts\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing contexts

.PP
\fB--skip-extras\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing project checkout keys, additional SSH keys, webhooks, and schedules

.PP
\fB--skip-org-settings\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing org-level settings (feature flags, OIDC, URL-orb allow list, config policies)

.PP
\fB--skip-projects\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing projects

.PP
\fB--skip-runner\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing self-hosted runner resource classes

.PP
\fB--skip-terraform-managed\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing sections that Terraform manages (contexts, projects, runner resource classes). Use this for the CLI gap-fill step after \fBterraform apply\fR to avoid overwriting resources Terraform already owns. Syncs org-settings, CIAM, and extras (checkout-keys, ssh-keys, schedules). Mutually exclusive with --only.

.PP
\fB-y\fP, \fB--yes\fP[=false]
	Only with --apply: auto-confirm enabling builds after project creation (skip the interactive prompt). No effect in a dry run.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug logging

.PP
\fB--dest-token\fP=""
	API token for the destination org (env: CIRCLECI_DEST_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--host\fP="https://circleci.com"
	CircleCI host URL (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_HOST, CIRCLECI_HOST, or CIRCLE_URL)

.PP
\fB--source-token\fP=""
	API token for the source org (env: CIRCLECI_SOURCE_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Personal API token — fallback for both orgs (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_TOKEN or CIRCLE_TOKEN)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcircleci-migrate(1)\fP
