.nh
.TH "CIRCLECI-MIGRATE" "1" "Jun 2026" "circleci-migrate" "CircleCI Org Migration CLI"

.SH NAME
circleci-migrate-secrets - Capture secret values that the API cannot expose (RECOMMENDED: use 'secrets capture').


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircleci-migrate secrets [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
secrets handles the one thing the CircleCI API cannot: secret VALUES.

.PP
CircleCI masks environment-variable values everywhere in its API, so 'export'
captures only their names. The 'secrets' subcommands recover those values by
running a pipeline inside CircleCI and reading the variables from the job env.

.PP
NOTE: 'secrets extract' is designed to run INSIDE a CircleCI job (not locally).
For the recommended local workflow, use 'secrets capture' instead.

.PP
RECOMMENDED PATH — 'secrets capture' (CLI-orchestrated, no committed config):

.PP
circleci-migrate secrets capture

.PP
Run on an interactive terminal to launch the guided walkthrough. The CLI:
    • Loads your manifest to list available contexts and projects.
    • Lets you pick which contexts and projects to extract.
    • Prompts for the HOST PROJECT under which context extraction runs
      (any project works; build history is irrelevant).
    • Recommends encryption (age) so plaintext never persists in artifacts.
    • Builds an inline unversioned pipeline config and triggers the run.
    • Polls until completion, then downloads and decrypts the artifact.
    • Writes the captured values to a local secret bundle.

.PP
All flags bypass prompts for CI/scripted use — see 'secrets capture --help'.

.PP
ALTERNATIVE PATH — orb / 'secrets extract' (committed config):

.PP
Use 'circleci-migrate orb inline' or the awesomecicd/circleci-org-migration
  orb to add an extraction job to an existing pipeline config. The in-job
  'secrets extract' command reads values from the job environment.

.PP
This path requires committing a config change but gives you full control
  over when and how the extraction job runs.

.PP
Subcommands:
  capture   CLI-orchestrated extraction via unversioned pipeline (RECOMMENDED)
  transfer  Direct source→dest transfer via in-pipeline PUT (no bundle file; context values only)
  extract   In-job extraction from the current environment (orb path)
  decrypt   Decrypt an age-encrypted secret bundle locally
  merge     Merge multiple secret bundles into one


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for secrets


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug logging

.PP
\fB--dest-token\fP=""
	API token for the destination org (env: CIRCLECI_DEST_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--host\fP="https://circleci.com"
	CircleCI host URL (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_HOST, CIRCLECI_HOST, or CIRCLE_URL)

.PP
\fB--source-token\fP=""
	API token for the source org (env: CIRCLECI_SOURCE_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Personal API token — fallback for both orgs (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_TOKEN or CIRCLE_TOKEN)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcircleci-migrate(1)\fP, \fBcircleci-migrate-secrets-capture(1)\fP, \fBcircleci-migrate-secrets-decrypt(1)\fP, \fBcircleci-migrate-secrets-extract(1)\fP, \fBcircleci-migrate-secrets-merge(1)\fP, \fBcircleci-migrate-secrets-transfer(1)\fP
