.nh
.TH "CIRCLECI-MIGRATE" "1" "Jun 2026" "circleci-migrate" "CircleCI Org Migration CLI"

.SH NAME
circleci-migrate-secrets-capture - Capture secret values by running an unversioned pipeline inside CircleCI (RECOMMENDED).


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircleci-migrate secrets capture [--manifest ] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
capture is the RECOMMENDED way to extract secret values from CircleCI.

.PP
It extracts plaintext environment-variable values WITHOUT committing any config
to the target repository. The CLI builds an inline (unversioned) pipeline config,
triggers a run inside CircleCI, and downloads the captured values automatically.

.PP
RECOMMENDED: run 'secrets capture' on an interactive terminal without flags to
  launch the guided walkthrough. It prompts for each option with sensible defaults
  and explicit guidance on host-project selection for context extraction.

.PP
NOTE: interactive prompts are written to stderr; if you pipe stdout while
relying on the guided prompts, use a TTY for stdin — piping stdin triggers
non-TTY mode and all flags must be supplied explicitly.

.PP
For the orb-based alternative (committed config), see:
    circleci-migrate orb inline --help
    circleci-migrate secrets extract --help

.PP
HOW IT WORKS:
  1. Reads variable names from the manifest for the selected project(s) and
     context(s).
  2. Ensures api-trigger-with-config is enabled for each project (either it
     must already be on, or --enable-trigger must be set).
  3. Triggers an unversioned pipeline run with an inline config that dumps the
     variable values to a build artifact.
  4. Polls until the pipeline completes, then downloads and parses the artifact.
  5. Writes the captured values into the secret bundle (--output).
  6. Restores the api-trigger-with-config flag to its original value (even on
     failure).

.PP
HOST PROJECT FOR CONTEXT EXTRACTION:
  Context env vars are injected into a job that references the context.
  The pipeline must run under some project — this is the "host project".
  Any project works; build history is irrelevant (only extraction matters).
  Use --host-project to specify it; the guided mode prompts you to choose.
  Project env vars are always captured under each project's own pipeline.

.PP
ENCRYPTION (default: ON — use --no-encrypt to opt out):
  By default, the in-pipeline extraction job encrypts the artifact with age so
  that plaintext secrets NEVER persist in CircleCI artifact storage. Encryption
  requires a public key: supply --ssh-public-key or --generate-key. When neither
  is given, capture auto-generates a fresh keypair (--generate-key behaviour).

.PP
After the run, capture downloads the .age artifact and decrypts it locally
  with --ssh-private-key (or the generated key) to build the in-memory bundle.

.PP
Use --no-encrypt to disable encryption and accept a PLAINTEXT artifact. This
  is strongly discouraged for production secrets — build artifacts are retained
  for at least 1 day and there is no delete-artifact API.

.PP
Use --generate-key to have capture create a fresh age X25519 keypair
  automatically, print the file paths, and use it for this run.

.PP
STORAGE (--storage):
  artifact (default) — store the bundle as a CircleCI job artifact.
  s3                 — upload to S3 only (requires aws CLI + AWS creds in job).
  both               — store in both artifact and S3.

.PP
For S3 storage provide --s3-bucket and (optionally) --s3-prefix.
  The job executor must have AWS credentials via a context or project env vars.

.PP
SECURITY NOTES:
  - Without --encrypt: the secret bundle contains plaintext secrets. Protect it.
  - Build artifacts are retained for at least 1 day; there is no delete API.
    With --encrypt the artifact is age-encrypted so plaintext never hits disk.
  - Rotate any captured secrets after migration.

.PP
Examples:
  # Interactive guided walkthrough (recommended for first-time use):
  circleci-migrate secrets capture

.PP
# Non-interactive with encryption (default; auto-generates a keypair):
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json --source-token $TOKEN
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json --project gh/acme/web \\
    --enable-trigger --branch main -o secrets.json
  # Encrypted capture with auto-generated key (explicit):
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json --generate-key
  # Encrypted capture with existing SSH key:
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json \\
    --ssh-public-key ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub --ssh-private-key ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  # Opt out of encryption (PLAINTEXT artifact — NOT recommended):
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json --no-encrypt
  # Context capture specifying host project explicitly:
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json \\
    --context deploy-prod --host-project gh/acme/web --enable-trigger
  # Upload encrypted bundle to S3 instead of artifact:
  circleci-migrate secrets capture --manifest manifest.json --generate-key \\
    --storage s3 --s3-bucket my-migration-bucket --s3-prefix migration/


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--artifact-retention-days\fP=0
	Set the org's artifact-retention to this many days BEFORE triggering the extraction pipeline. Recommended value: 1 (the minimum). Default 0 = leave unchanged. The prior value is logged so you can restore it manually. This control is NOT auto-restored after capture — keeping retention low is the safe default when secrets may land in artifacts.

.PP
\fB--branch\fP="main"
	Branch to check out for the extraction run

.PP
\fB--context\fP=[]
	Context name(s) to capture (default: all in manifest)

.PP
\fB--enable-trigger\fP[=false]
	Enable api-trigger-with-config if not already on, and restore after capture

.PP
\fB--encrypt\fP[=true]
	Encrypt the in-pipeline artifact with age so plaintext secrets never persist in CircleCI (default: true). Supply --ssh-public-key or --generate-key; if neither is given a fresh keypair is auto-generated. Use --no-encrypt to opt out.

.PP
\fB--generate-key\fP[=false]
	Generate a fresh age X25519 keypair for this run. Writes the identity to ./migration-identity.age and the recipient to ./migration-recipient.txt. Use --generate-key instead of --ssh-public-key when you do not have an existing key. Auto-enabled when --encrypt is in effect and no key is supplied.

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for capture

.PP
\fB--host-project\fP=""
	Project slug to use when running the CONTEXT extraction pipeline. Any project works — build history is irrelevant; only the extraction matters. Prompted interactively when contexts are selected and this flag is absent.

.PP
\fB--manifest\fP=""
	Path to the export manifest (prompted interactively when omitted on a TTY)

.PP
\fB--no-encrypt\fP[=false]
	Disable artifact encryption and produce a PLAINTEXT secrets artifact. NOT recommended for production secrets — build artifacts are retained for at least 1 day and there is no delete-artifact API.

.PP
\fB--no-input\fP[=false]
	Disable all interactive prompts; error if a required value is missing (implied when stdin is not a TTY)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="secrets.json"
	Path to the secret bundle to write/append

.PP
\fB--poll-timeout\fP=10m0s
	Maximum time to wait for each pipeline to complete (0 = no timeout)

.PP
\fB--project\fP=[]
	Project slug(s) to capture (default: all in manifest)

.PP
\fB--remove-restrictions\fP[=false]
	Temporarily remove real context restrictions before extraction and restore them afterwards (requires explicit opt-in)

.PP
\fB--s3-bucket\fP=""
	S3 bucket name for --storage s3|both (required when --storage s3 or both)

.PP
\fB--s3-prefix\fP=""
	S3 key prefix for --storage s3|both (optional; e.g. 'migration/')

.PP
\fB--skip-restricted-contexts\fP[=true]
	Skip contexts that have project/expression/group restrictions (attach warning instead of attempting)

.PP
\fB--ssh-keys\fP[=true]
	Extract additional SSH private keys for projects that have cataloged SSH keys in the manifest. Runs a separate in-pipeline job using add_ssh_keys with the explicit cataloged fingerprints — the checkout/deploy key is never materialised. Use --no-ssh-keys to skip SSH key extraction (e.g. when running env-var capture only).

.PP
\fB--ssh-private-key\fP=""
	Path to an SSH private key or age identity file used to decrypt the artifact locally. Defaults to ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 if present and --ssh-public-key points to the matching .pub.

.PP
\fB--ssh-public-key\fP=""
	Path to an SSH public key (.pub) or age recipients file used as the encryption recipient. The public key is safe to embed in the pipeline config.

.PP
\fB--storage\fP="artifact"
	Where to store the (optionally encrypted) bundle after extraction.
artifact (default) — store as a CircleCI job artifact.
s3                 — upload to S3 via the aws CLI (requires AWS creds in job).
both               — store in both artifact and S3.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug logging

.PP
\fB--dest-token\fP=""
	API token for the destination org (env: CIRCLECI_DEST_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--host\fP="https://circleci.com"
	CircleCI host URL (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_HOST, CIRCLECI_HOST, or CIRCLE_URL)

.PP
\fB--source-token\fP=""
	API token for the source org (env: CIRCLECI_SOURCE_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Personal API token — fallback for both orgs (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_TOKEN or CIRCLE_TOKEN)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcircleci-migrate-secrets(1)\fP
