.nh
.TH "CIRCLECI-MIGRATE" "1" "Jun 2026" "circleci-migrate" "CircleCI Org Migration CLI"

.SH NAME
circleci-migrate-migrate - All-in-one: export source org and sync into destination org.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcircleci-migrate migrate [--source-org  --dest-org ] [--apply] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
migrate combines 'export' and 'sync' into a single command.

.PP
When run WITHOUT --source-org and --dest-org on an interactive terminal,
migrate launches a guided walkthrough that prompts for each required value and
lets you choose which parts of the org to migrate. This interactive mode is
designed for first-time use and manual one-off migrations.

.PP
NOTE: interactive prompts are written to stderr; if you pipe stdout while
relying on the guided prompts, use a TTY for stdin — piping stdin triggers
non-TTY mode and skips all prompts (use --no-input to make this explicit).

.PP
When --source-org and --dest-org are provided, migrate runs non-interactively
using only the supplied flags — suitable for scripting and CI pipelines. Pass
--no-input (or run with stdin redirected / piped) to make the command error
immediately if any required value is missing, instead of blocking on a prompt.

.PP
It reads data from the source CircleCI organisation (using the source token),
builds an in-memory manifest, and immediately applies it to the destination
organisation (using the dest token) — without requiring a manifest file on
disk.

.PP
Secret VALUES are never exported via the API. If you have a captured secret
bundle (produced by the in-pipeline 'secrets' step), pass it with --secrets.
Without a bundle, all variable values are reported as needing manual entry
(or use --missing-secrets=placeholder to write placeholder values).

.PP
By default migrate performs a DRY RUN and writes nothing to the destination.
Review the output, then re-run with --apply to write changes. Pass --yes / -y
to auto-confirm enabling builds for newly-created projects without a prompt.

.PP
Use --output / -o to save the exported manifest to disk, and --report to save
a human-readable audit document. Both flags are optional; omitting them keeps
the migration entirely in-memory.

.PP
For more control — e.g. to inspect or edit the manifest between steps — run
\&'export' and 'sync' separately.

.PP
Examples:
  # Interactive guided walkthrough (no flags required):
  circleci-migrate migrate

.PP
# Non-interactive (flags bypass all prompts):
  circleci-migrate migrate \\
    --source-org gh/acme --dest-org gh/acme-new \\
    --source-token $SRC_TOKEN --dest-token $DST_TOKEN

.PP
# CI pipeline (non-interactive, apply immediately):
  circleci-migrate migrate \\
    --source-org gh/acme --dest-org gh/acme-new \\
    --secrets secrets.json --apply --yes --no-input

.PP
# Save manifest and audit report:
  circleci-migrate migrate \\
    --source-org gh/acme --dest-org gh/acme-new \\
    --apply -o manifest.json --report migration-report.md


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	Write changes to the destination (default: dry run)

.PP
\fB--create-project-tokens\fP[=false]
	When set AND --apply, recreate each captured project API token on the destination project. CAUTION: each recreated token mints a NEW one-time secret — every consumer of the old token must be repointed to the new value. New plaintext values are printed to stderr once and cannot be retrieved again. Default false: emit manual steps only.

.PP
\fB--dest-github-org\fP=""
	Destination GitHub organization owner (e.g. 'acme-new'). Use when all repos have moved to a new GitHub org. Takes precedence over the source owner when resolving repo external IDs; overridden by an explicit github_org entry in the mapping file. Requires --github-token.

.PP
\fB--dest-org\fP=""
	Destination organization slug: gh/ or circleci/ (required, or prompted interactively)

.PP
\fB--dest-runner-namespace\fP=""
	Destination runner namespace for recreating self-hosted runner resource classes (e.g. 'acme-new'). Must be supplied explicitly — the syncer never guesses the destination namespace. When omitted and the manifest contains runner classes, each is flagged for manual recreation.

.PP
\fB--github-token\fP=""
	GitHub personal access token used to resolve repository IDs when creating pipeline definitions in a GitHub App destination org. Falls back to $GITHUB_TOKEN. Required when repos have been moved to a new GitHub org (--dest-github-org or mapping github_org).

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for migrate

.PP
\fB--json\fP[=false]
	Print a machine-readable JSON summary to stdout instead of the human-readable output; progress is written to stderr

.PP
\fB--mapping\fP=""
	Path to a source->destination mapping file (optional)

.PP
\fB--missing-secrets\fP="skip"
	How to handle variables with no captured value: skip|placeholder

.PP
\fB--no-input\fP[=false]
	Disable all interactive prompts; error if a required value is missing (implied when stdin is not a TTY)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	Optional: save the exported manifest to this path (omit to keep migration entirely in-memory)

.PP
\fB--report\fP=""
	Optional: save the human-readable audit report to this path (omit to skip writing the report)

.PP
\fB--runner-namespace\fP=""
	Source runner namespace to capture self-hosted runner resource classes from (e.g. 'acme'). The namespace must be supplied explicitly — there is no clean org→namespace lookup.

.PP
\fB--secrets\fP="secrets.json"
	Path to a captured secret bundle (optional)

.PP
\fB--skip-ciam\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing CIAM roles and groups (standalone circleci-type orgs only)

.PP
\fB--skip-contexts\fP[=false]
	Skip exporting and syncing contexts

.PP
\fB--skip-extras\fP[=false]
	Skip checkout keys, webhooks, and schedules

.PP
\fB--skip-org-settings\fP[=false]
	Skip syncing org-level settings (feature flags, OIDC, URL-orb allow list, config policies)

.PP
\fB--skip-preflight\fP[=false]
	Skip the startup preflight checks (token validation, org reachability, cross-type warning, api-trigger flag, project discovery). Preflight runs by default before export/sync; use --skip-preflight in CI pipelines or when checks have already been verified manually.

.PP
\fB--skip-projects\fP[=false]
	Skip exporting and syncing projects

.PP
\fB--skip-runner\fP[=false]
	Skip exporting and syncing self-hosted runner resource classes

.PP
\fB--source-org\fP=""
	Source organization slug: gh/ or circleci/ (required, or prompted interactively)

.PP
\fB-y\fP, \fB--yes\fP[=false]
	Auto-confirm enabling builds after project creation (skip the interactive prompt)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug logging

.PP
\fB--dest-token\fP=""
	API token for the destination org (env: CIRCLECI_DEST_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--host\fP="https://circleci.com"
	CircleCI host URL (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_HOST, CIRCLECI_HOST, or CIRCLE_URL)

.PP
\fB--source-token\fP=""
	API token for the source org (env: CIRCLECI_SOURCE_TOKEN)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Personal API token — fallback for both orgs (env: CIRCLECI_CLI_TOKEN or CIRCLE_TOKEN)


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcircleci-migrate(1)\fP
